This is a quick video for us to set off
some coins that the player can pick up,
have them animate and spin around.
And when the player jumps and
lands on them, we pick up those coins,
starting our process of creating a pickup.
So let's jump in and make a coin pick-up.
Okay, you should be pretty
familiar with this process now,
so I'm gonna go with it quite quickly.
The first thing we're going to
do is to download the sprites.
I've got against this lecture, unzip that,
drag it into your sprites folder.
And then we will find that there.
We've got a whole bunch of coins,
have a look at those.
Yes, they are coins, we can confirm.
Change it to 32 pixels per unit and
what else do we need to do in here?
We need to slice it up,
so hit Apply there.
And jump over into, there we go,
it's like multiple, click Sprite Editor,
apply the multiple change
we did just there.
Slice we will slice this, I think
by cell size is the right way to do that,
32 by 32 padding as always 6 by 6.
We'll see how our splicing ends up there.
Zoom in a little bit and see,
hold down control Looks in the middle,
looks in the middle.
That all looks lovely, click Apply.
We now have ourselves some sliced
up coins to put into our scene.
We need to next create
ourselves an empty game object.
That will be called pickups.
Pickups, not just coins, but
any old pickups can go in there.
We'll reset the transform on this.
And underneath pickups, we will create
a first coin game object, so create empty.
We'll call this coin.
Could call it pickup, but
we'll call it coin pickup, perhaps.
Not, I think just coin is fine.
We know what a coin means.
If we've played a video game,
we know what coin means,, don't we?
Okay so there we have our coin.
What do we need to do in there?
We need to add a bunch of components.
So any point in time,
you want to just go ahead and do this.
Like I've said we've done
this a few times before.
So just jump in and go forward.
We need to add a sprite
renderer as a starting point.
Let's add one of those and
then drag one of these coin icons.
Into there so we now can visualize
that and it has put it over the 00.
Which is a little bit of a pain but
we'll go find where that is.
Not too much of a pain.
Okay, hit F2,
double click on the coin,
actually, to zoom in on it.
That's a better way of doing it.
Now, we have our layering issues,
sorting layout.
We've already created interactive all,
so that's where we'll place this.
I think that's pretty good for that.
And also in terms of the layer, we will
have this as an Interactables layer.
Cuz we've said Interactables can only
collide with the player and nothing else.
So that's a really easy step.
Any other Interactable we do now is
very easily set up with those two steps.
Okay, we need a Box Collider, Box Collider
2D, and we'll make sure this is Trigger.
Either that, or
the player needs to be a Trigger, and
we'll make sure this is a Trigger.
So we have that is a box collider.
It's a little bit big at the moment.
So we'll do a little bit of editing,
just to make it a bit tighter.
And drag this in here.
Drag that in there.
Drag the bottom to up, and
drag the left to the middle.
Okay, there we have a nice tight
box collider surrounding that
coin we have there, at the moment.
Now what else do we need in here?
We need some animation,
cuz we've got all these frames of
our sprite that we've imported.
So I'll add an Animator, Animator.
Hopefully this is all super familiar and
you're flying through this at
the same time I'm going through it.
Got an Animator, but
we don't have an Animator controller, so
we'll go through the process for that.
First we'll create our animation by
highlighting our coins, right-click, and
Create Animation.
I'll call this animation Coin Spin,
that's pretty good,
drag that over into Animations.
While we're over in the Animations,
we will create ourselves,
right-click Create an Animator Controller.
In the Animator Controller,
we call this Coin It's not really gonna
do anything else except for the spinning.
So we'll call this coin.
We'll call it coin actually cause
we've got enemy, player, and coin.
That makes sense.
Now click on coin,
expand out animator window a little bit.
We've got entry, any state, and exit.
We'll just come from entry.
And we'll drag in our
clean animation into here.
Sorry.
Our coin spin animation.
There we go, make sure that the coin spin
has looping ticked on the coin spin.
And we don't need any
transition into that.
It's just going to sit there and spin.
Let's click play.
Make sure that we've got a lot of
components that we need in other for
our Coin to sit there and spin.
We have not, we have forgotten something.
Which is to tell the animator that this
is the animator controller we're using.
So grab the coin animator controller.
Drag that in, now we'll click Play.
Make sure it's all working and
spinning around.
Yep, there we go.
A little bit of a highlight and
a spin, cool.
So we can dump in a thousand of those and
they would all do their spinny
animation thing, which is really cool.
So we will put this in a logical spot for
the player to collect, maybe down there.
We'll just have one for now.
Time for us to prefab this, though.
Make sure we prefab out coin,
drag that down.
We now have a coin prefab, so
we can dump in a couple more.
After just saying we'll only do one,
let's do a couple more, and
we can put it wherever we like.
There we go, we've got three coins
that the player can go and get.
So we now have our coins,
they're not gonna do anything just yet.
But this video is about
setting them up as a pickup.
So, the last thing we
need to do on our coin,
is to create ourselves a script
through Add Component.
We'll call this, coin pickup and
open up that script.
Now in our coin pickup script we're
not going to need start or update.
What we are going to need to do is our
thing, and our thing is destroy the coin.
Now this is a simple one.
When the player picks up the coin,
destroy it.
So it can simulate the pick up atness.
Feel free to add some sound effects
if you're ready to do that.
But we will be covering that next because
there's a couple of gotchas that we're
gonna have an architect conversation,
architect?
Architectural conversation about it
in terms of how we structure our
sound effects on something
that we are destroying.
So, don't spend too much
time on the sound effects.
But it's okay if you're ready
to solve that puzzle and
get a little bit ahead of the game.
We will be covering that
in the next video too.
But for now, jump in and
have it when the player picks up the coin,
the coin disappears.
How did you get along with that?
Hopefully pretty well.
We've done this sort of
thing a few times now.
We're gonna start by creating a method
private void on trigger enter.
[INAUDIBLE] enter 2D and then very simply
we say destroy, what are we destroying?
Well we're destroying this
particular gameObject.
Okay, save that back into Unity,
click play but
make sure we've got that applied so
we did that for one of our coins.
And so
we've applied that back to the prefab, or
we could have been working
directly in the prefab.
Which is a sensible way to do it.
Got it to work straight into the prefab,
and
got one, got another one and
got another one.
There we go, so as we jumped into
those coins they disappeared,
we technically got ourselves a pickup.
Because we just pick those things up,
no impact on the game yet,
no impact on the player.
But we've started our
process of having a pick up.
In the next video or two, we're gonna
get a little bit meaty in terms of
how we have our pick
ups play sound effects.
And how we have them persist from scene to
scene, or not persist from scene to scene,
depending on what it is we need.
So I'll see you in the next video.